Description
CROSS-REFERENCE
[0001] This application claims the benefit of U.S. Pro-
visional Application No. 62/398,471, filed Sept. 22, 2016
[Attorney Docket No 34634-730.101], which application
is incorporated herein by reference.
BACKGROUND
[0002] 1. Field of the Disclosure. The present disclo-
sure relates generally to medical methods and devices.
More particularly, the present disclosure relates to med-
ical methods and kits for distributing temsirolimus in the
tissue surrounding a blood vessel.
[0003] Blockages can form in blood vessels under var-
ious disease conditions. In atherosclerosis, the narrow-
ing of arteries in the body, particularly in the heart, legs,
carotid and renal anatomy, can lead to tissue ischemia
from lack of blood flow. Mechanical revascularization
methods, such as balloon angioplasty, atherectomy,
stenting, or surgical endarterectomy, may be used to
open the blood vessel and to improve blood flow to down-
stream tissues. Unfortunately, mechanical revasculari-
zation can leadtoan injurycascadethat causes the blood
vessel to stiffen and vessel walls to thicken with a scar-
like tissue, which can reduce the blood flow and neces-
sitate another revascularization procedure. There is a
greatdesiretoreduce thevesselstiffeningandthickening
following mechanical revascularization to maintain or im-
prove the patency of the blood vessel.
SUMMARY
[0004] There is a great desire to reduce the vessel stiff-
ening and thickening following mechanical revasculari-
zation of narrowed blood vessel to maintain or improve
the patency of the blood vessel. The present disclosure
provides methods and injectable composition for distrib-
uting temsirolimus to a tissue surrounding a blood vessel
for treating vascular diseases.
[0005] In a certain aspect, described herein, is a meth-
od of treating a vasculardisease in a subject.The method
of treating the vascular disease in the subject comprises
administering to the subject a therapeutically effective
amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising
temsirolimus or its pharmaceutically acceptable salts. In
certain embodiments, the composition is administered
by direct injection to a disease site. In a certain embod-
iment, the composition is injected though a catheter with
a needle. In a certain embodiment, the composition is
injected distal or proximal to the disease site. In a certain
embodiment, the composition is injected at least about
2 cm away from the disease site. In a certain embodi-
ment, the composition is injected at or adjacent to the
disease site. In a certain embodiment, the composition
is administered by injection into a blood vessel. In a cer-
tain embodiment, the composition is injected into an ad-
ventitial tissue surrounding a blood vessel. In a certain
embodiment, the composition is injected into a perivas-
cular tissue surrounding a blood vessel. In a certain em-
bodiment, the blood vessel is an artery. In a certain em-
bodiment, the blood vessel is a vein. In a certain embod-
iment, the artery is a coronary artery or a peripheral ar-
tery. In a certain embodiment, the artery is selected from
the group consisting of renal artery, cerebral artery, pul-
monary artery, and artery in the leg. In a certain embod-
iment, the artery is below the knee. In a certain embod-
iment, the artery is in the leg above the knee. In a certain
embodiment, the blood vessel is below-knee popliteal
vessel or tibial vessel. In a certain embodiment, the com-
position is injected into a blood vessel wall. In a certain
embodiment,the composition is injected into a tissuesur-
rounding the blood vessel wall.
[0006] In certain embodiments, the therapeutically ef-
fective amount of temsirolimus is about 1 mg to 50 mg,
about 10 mg to 20 mg, or about 25 mg to 10 mg. In certain
embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount of
temsirolimus is about 0.005 mg to 5 mg per cm, or about
0.025 mg to 1 mg per cm of longitudinal length of the
disease site in the blood vessel. In certain embodiments,
the injection volume of the composition is about 0.01 ml
to about 50 ml, or about 0.5 ml to about 20 ml. In certain
embodiments, the injection concentration of tem-
sirolimus is 0.01 mg/mL to 2.0 mg/mL, 0.1 mg/mL to 0.5
mg/mL, or 0.1 mg/mL to 0.4 mg/mL. In certain embodi-
ments, 12 months after administration of the pharmaceu-
tical composition, vessel cross-sectional area at the dis-
ease site has decreased no more than 60%, 50%, or
30%, when compared to vessel cross-sectional area at
the disease site at the time of administration. In a certain
embodiment, the composition further comprises a con-
trast medium for visualizing the injection. In a certain em-
bodiment, the subject is human.
[0007] In certain embodiments, the vascular disease
is angina, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure,
cardiac arrhythmia, peripheral artery disease, claudica-
tion, or critical limb ischemia. In certain embodiments,
the vascular disease is atherosclerosis, bypass graft fail-
ure, transplant vasculopathy, vascular restenosis, or in-
stent restenosis.
[0008] In another aspect, described herein, is an in-
jectable composition comprising temsirolimus or a phar-
maceutically acceptable salt thereof, and a pharmaceu-
tically acceptable excipient for use in treating a vascular
disease.In acertainembodiment,thecompositionissuit-
able for adventitial delivery. In a certain embodiment, the
composition is suitable for adventitial delivery in the leg.
In a certain embodiment, the composition is suitable for
adventitial delivery below the knee. In a certain embod-
iment, the composition is suitable for adventitial delivery
in the leg above the knee. In a certain embodiment, the
composition is suitable for adventitial delivery to a below-
knee popliteal or tibial vessel. In a certain embodiment,
the composition is suitable for direct injection to the vas-
1 2
EP 4 295 906 A2
3
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
cular disease site. In certain embodiments, the therapeu-
tically effective amount of temsirolimus is about 1 mg to
50 mg, about 10 mg to 20 mg, or about 25 mg to 10 mg.
In certain embodiments, the injection volume of the com-
position is about 0.01 ml to about 50 ml, or about 0.5 ml
to about 20 ml. In certain embodiments, the therapeuti-
cally effective amount of temsirolimus is about 0.005 mg
to 5 mg per cm, or about 0.025 mg to 1 mg per cm of
longitudinal length of the disease site in the blood vessel.
In certain embodiments, the concentration of tem-
sirolimus is 0.01 mg/mL to 2.0 mg/mL, about 0.1 to 0.5
mg/mL, or about 0.1 mg/mL to about 0.4 mg/mL. In a
certain embodiment, the injectable composition is for use
in treating, preventing, or inhibiting restenosis in the leg.
In a certain embodiment, the injectable composition is
for use in treating, preventing, or inhibiting restenosis be-
low the knee. In a certain embodiment, the injectable
composition is for use in treating, preventing, or inhibiting
restenosis in the leg above the knee. In a certain embod-
iment, the injectable composition is for use in treating,
preventing, or inhibiting restenosis in a below-knee pop-
liteal vessel or tibial vessel. In a certain embodiment, the
injectable composition is for use in treating, preventing,
or inhibiting restenosis in a femoral vessel. In a certain
embodiment, the pharmaceutically acceptable excipient
of the injectable composition is 0.9% sodium chloride in-
jection USP, dehydrated alcohol, dl-alpha tocopherol,
anhydrouscitricacid,polysorbate80,polyethyleneglycol
400, propylene glycol, or a combination thereof.
[0009] Inanotheraspect,describedherein,isamethod
of treating a peripheral artery disease in a human subject
in need thereof, the method comprising administering to
the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a phar-
maceutical composition comprising temsirolimus or its
pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, wherein the
composition is administered by direct injection to or near
adiseasesiteinatissuesurroundingawallofaperipheral
artery or in the wall of the peripheral artery via a laterally
extending injection needle of a catheter advanced
through vasculature of the human subject, wherein the
amount of the pharmaceutical composition is therapeu-
tically effective to cause patency at the disease site after
administration to only minimally decrease or to increase
when compared to patency at the disease site at the time
of administration. In certain embodiments, the therapeu-
tically effective amount of temsirolimus is about 1 mg to
50 mg, about 10 mg to 20 mg, or about 25 mg to 10 mg.
In certain embodiments, the therapeutically effective
amount of temsirolimus is about 0.005 mg to 5 mg per
cm, or about 0.025 mg to 1 mg per cm of longitudinal
length of the disease site in the peripheral artery. In cer-
tain embodiments, the injection volume of the composi-
tion is about 0.01 ml to about 50 ml, or about 0.5 ml to
about 20 ml. In certain embodiments, the injection con-
centration of temsirolimus is 0.01 mg/mL to 2.0 mg/mL,
0.1 mg/mL to 0.5 mg/mL, or 0.1 mg/mL to 0.4 mg/mL. In
certain embodiments, 12 months after administration of
the pharmaceutical composition, vessel cross-sectional
area at the disease site has decreased no more than
60%, 50%, or 30%, when compared to vessel cross-sec-
tional area at the disease site at the time of administra-
tion. In a certain embodiment, the composition further
comprises a contrastmedium for visualizing the injection.
In a certain embodiment, the artery is below the knee. In
a certain embodiment, the artery is in the leg above the
knee.In a certain embodiment, the blood vesselis below-
knee popliteal vessel or tibial vessel.
[0010] In another aspect, described herein, is an in-
jectable composition comprising temsirolimus or a phar-
maceutically acceptable salt thereof, and a pharmaceu-
tically acceptable excipient for use in treating restenosis
in a peripheral artery of a human subject, wherein the
composition is suitable for adventitial delivery to the pe-
ripheral artery, wherein the composition is suitable for
direct injection to a vascular disease site in a tissue sur-
rounding a wall of the peripheral artery or in the wall of
the peripheral artery via a laterally extending needle from
a catheter advanced through vasculature of the human
subject in a therapeutically effective amount effective to
cause patency at the disease site after administration to
increase or minimally decrease when compared to pat-
ency at the disease site at the time of administration. In
a certain embodiment, the composition is suitable for ad-
ventitial delivery in the leg. In a certain embodiment, the
composition is suitable for adventitial delivery below the
knee. In a certain embodiment, the composition is suit-
able for adventitial delivery in the leg above the knee. In
a certain embodiment, the composition is suitable for ad-
ventitial delivery to a below-knee popliteal ortibialvessel.
In certain embodiments, the therapeutically effective
amount of temsirolimus is about 1 mg to 50 mg, about 10
mg to 20 mg, or about 25 mg to 10 mg. In certain embod-
iments, the injection volume of the composition is about
0.01 ml to about 50 ml, or about 0.5 ml to about 20 ml.
In certain embodiments, the therapeutically effective
amount of temsirolimus is about 0.005 mg to 5 mg per
cm, or about 0.025 mg to 1 mg per cm of longitudinal
length of the disease site in the blood vessel. In certain
embodiments, the concentration of temsirolimus is about
0.01 mg/mL to about 2.0 mg/mL, about 0.1 mg/mL to
about 0.5 mg/mL, or about 0.1 mg/mL to about 0.4
mg/mL. In a certain embodiment, the pharmaceutically
acceptable excipient is 0.9% sodium chloride injection
USP, dehydrated alcohol, dl-alpha tocopherol, anhy-
drous citric acid,polysorbate80,polyethyleneglycol400,
propylene glycol, or a combination thereof.